Glaze: Protecting Artists from Style Mimicry by Text-to-Image Models
Shawn Shan, Jenna Cryan, Emily Wenger, Haitao Zheng, Rana Hanocka, Ben Y. Zhao
Department of Computer Science, University of Chicago
{shawnshan, jennacryan, ewillson, htzheng, ranahanocka, ravenben}@cs.uchicago.edu
Abstract
Recent text-to-image diffusion models such as MidJourney
and Stable Diffusion threaten to displace many in the pro-
fessional artist community. In particular, models can learn to
mimic the artistic style of speciﬁc artists after “ﬁne-tuning”
on samples of their art. In this paper, we describe the design,
implementation and evaluation of Glaze, a tool that enables
artists to apply “style cloaks” to their art before sharing on-
line. These cloaks apply barely perceptible perturbations to
images, and when used as training data, mislead generative
models that try to mimic a speciﬁc artist. In coordination with
the professional artist community, we deploy user studies to
more than 1000 artists, assessing their views of AI art, as
well as the efﬁcacy of our tool, its usability and tolerability of
perturbations, and robustness across different scenarios and
against adaptive countermeasures. Both surveyed artists and
empirical CLIP-based scores show that even at low perturba-
tion levels (p=0.05), Glaze is highly successful at disrupting
mimicry under normal conditions (>92%) and against adap-
tive countermeasures (>85%).
1 Introduction
It is not an exaggeration to say that the arrival of text-to-
image generator models has transformed, perhaps upended,
the art industry. By sending simple text prompts like “A pic-
ture of a corgi on the moon” to diffusion models such as
StableDiffusion or MidJourney, anyone can generate incredi-
bly detailed, high resolution artwork that previously required
many hours of work by professional artists. AI-art such as
those in Figure 1 have won awards at established art conven-
tions [69], served as cover images for magazines [47], and
used to illustrate children’s books [61] and video games [77].
More powerful models continue to arrive [34, 57, 83], cat-
alyzed by VC funding [59, 97, 98], technical research break-
throughs [4, 11, 37, 46, 52], and powered at their core by con-
tinuous training on a large volume of human-made art scraped
from online art repositories such as ArtStation, Pinterest and
DeviantArt.
Only months after their arrival, these models are rapidly
growing in users and platforms. In September 2022, Mid-
Journey reported over 2.7 million users and 275K AI art
images generated each day [31]. Beyond simple prompts,
Figure 1. Sample AI-generated art pieces from the Midjourney community
showcase [53, 69].
many have taken the open sourced StableDiffusion model,
and “ﬁne-tuned” it on additional samples from speciﬁc artists,
allowing them to generate AI art that mimics the speciﬁc
artistic styles of that artist [32]. In fact, entire platforms have
sprung up where home users are posting and sharing their own
customized diffusion models that specialize on mimicking
speciﬁc artists, likeness of celebrities, and NSFW themes [14].
Beyond open questions of copyrights [6], ethics [27, 60],
and consent [21, 26, 30], it is clear that these AI models have
had signiﬁcant negative impacts on independent artists. For
the estimated hundreds of thousands of independent artists
across the globe, most work on commissions, and attract cus-
tomers by advertising and promoting samples of their artwork
online. First, professional artists undergo years of training to
develop their individual artistic styles. A model that mimics
this style proﬁts from that training without compensating the
artist, effectively ending their ability to earn a living. Second,
as synthetic art mimicry continues to grow for popular artists,
they displace original art in search results, further disrupting
the artist’s ability to advertise and promote work to potential
customers [32, 75]. Finally, these mimicry attacks are demor-
alizing art students training to be future artists. Art students
see their future careers replaced by AI models even if they can
successfully ﬁnd and develop their own artistic styles [55].
Today, all of these consequences have indeed occurred in
the span of a few months. Art students are quitting the ﬁeld;
AI models that mimic speciﬁc artists are uploaded and shared
for free; and professional artists are losing their livelihoods
to models mimicking their unique styles. Artists are ﬁghting

back via lawsuits [20, 35], online boycotts and petitions [22],
but legal and regulatory action can take years, and are difﬁcult
to enforce internationally. Thus most artists are faced a choice
to 1) do nothing, or 2) stop sharing samples of their art online
to avoid training models, and in doing so cripple their main
way to advertise and promote their work to customers.
In this paper, we present the design, implementation and
evaluation of a technical alternative to protect artists against
style mimicry by text-to-image diffusion models. We present
Glaze, a system that allows an artist to apply carefully com-
puted perturbations to their art, such that diffusion models
will learn signiﬁcantly altered versions of their style, and be
ineffective in future attempts at style mimicry. We worked
closely with members of the professional artist community to
develop Glaze, and conduct multiple user studies with 1,156
participants from the artist community to evaluate its efﬁcacy,
usability, and robustness against a variety of active counter-
measures.
Intuitively, Glaze works by taking a piece of artwork, and
computing a minimal perturbation (a “style cloak”) which,
when applied, shifts the artwork’s representation in the gener-
ator model’s feature space towards a chosen target art style.
Training on multiple cloaked images teaches the generator
model to shift the artistic style it associates with the artist,
leading to mimicry art that fails to match the artist’s true style.
Our work makes several key contributions:
• We engage with top professional artists and the broader
community, and conduct user studies to understand their
views and concerns towards AI art and the impact on their
careers and community.
• We propose Glaze, a system that protects artists from style
mimicry by adding minimal perturbations to their artwork to
mislead AI models to generate art different from the targeted
artist. 92% of surveyed artists ﬁnd the perturbations small
enough not to disrupt the value of their art.
• Surveyed artists ﬁnd that Glaze successfully disrupts style
mimicry by AI models on protected artwork. 93% of artists
rate the protection is successful under a variety of settings,
including tests against real-world mimicry platforms.
• In challenging scenarios where an artist has already posted
signiﬁcant artworks online, we show Glaze protection re-
mains high. 87.2% of surveyed artists rate the protection as
successful when an artist is only able to cloak 1/4 of their
online art (75% of art is uncloaked).
• We evaluate Glaze and show that it is robust (protection
success > 85%) to a variety of adaptive countermeasures.
• We discuss Glaze deployment and post-deployment experi-
ences, including countermeasures in the wild.
Ethics. Our user study was reviewed and approved by our
institutional review board (IRB). All art samples used in ex-
periments were used with explicit consent by their respective
artists. All user study participants were compensated for their
time, although many refused payment.
2 Background: AI Art and Style Mimicry
In this section, we provide critical context in the form of basic
background on current AI art models and style mimicry.
2.1 Text-to-Image Generation
Since Text-to-image generation was ﬁrst proposed in
2015 [50], a stream of research has proposed newer model
architectures and training methods enabling generation of
higher-quality images [45, 63, 99, 103, 107]. The high level
design of recent models used for AI art generation [17,65,67]
is shown in Figure 3. During training, the model takes in an
image x and uses a feature extractor Φ to extract its features,
producing Φ(x). Simultaneously, a conditional image genera-
tor G takes in a corresponding text caption (s) and outputs a
predicted feature vector G(s). Then the parameters of G are
optimized so the text feature vector G(s) matches the image
feature vector Φ(x). At generation time, a user gives G a text
prompt s0, and G outputs an image feature vector G(s0). A
decoder D then decodes G(s0) to produce the ﬁnal generated
image.
Compared to earlier models based on generative adversarial
networks (GANs) or variational autoencoders (V AE) [63, 86,
107], more recent models [66,67] leveraging diffusion models
produce signiﬁcantly higher quality images. Feature extractor
(Φ) is used to reduce the dimensionality of the input image to
facilitate the generation process. The extractor Φ and decoder
D are often a pair of variational autoencoder (V AE) [65, 67],
i.e., extractor (encoder) extracts image features and decoder
map features back to images.
Training Data Sources. The training datasets of these
models typically contain image/ALT text pairs scraped from
the Internet. They are extremely large, e.g. LAION [78] con-
tains 5 billion images collected from 3 billion webpages.
These datasets are subject to minimal curation and gov-
ernance. Data collectors typically only ﬁlter out data with
extremely short or incorrect text captions (based on an auto-
mated text/image alignment metric [78]). Since copyrighted
images are not ﬁltered [78], these datasets are rife with private,
sensitive content, including copyrighted artworks.
2.2 Style Mimicry
In a style mimicry attack, a bad actor uses an AI art model to
create art in a particular artist’s style without their consent.
More than 67% of art pieces showcased on a popular AI-art-
sharing website leverage style mimicry [53].
Style mimicry techniques. Today, a “mimic” can easily
copy the style of a victim artist with only an open-source text-
to-image model and a few samples of artwork from the artist.
A naive mimicry attack directly queries a generic text-to-
image model using the name of the victim artist. For example,
the prompt “a painting in the style of Greg Rutkowski” would
cause the model to generate images in the style of Polish

Mimicked artwork  
in Hollie’s style
Original artwork 
by Hollie Mengert 
Figure 2. Real-world incident of AI plagiarizing the style of artist Hollie
Mengert [3]. Left: original artwork by Hollie Mengert. Right: plagiarized
artwork generated by a model trained to mimic Hollie’s style.
artist Greg Rutkowski. This is because many of Rutkowski’s
artworks appear in training datasets of these generic models
labeled with his name.
Naive mimicry can succeed when the artist is well-known
and has a signiﬁcant amount of art online, but fail on other
artists. In more recent mimicry attacks, a mimic ﬁne-tunes
a generic text-to-image model on samples of a target artist’s
work (as few as 20 unique pieces) downloaded from online
sources. This calibrates the model to the victim artist’s style,
identifying important features related to the victim style and
associating these regions in the feature space with the victim
artist’s name [28, 70]. This enables style mimicry with im-
pressive accuracy. The entire ﬁne-tuning process takes less
than 20 minutes on a low-end consumer GPU1.
Real-work mimicry incidents. The ﬁrst well-known inci-
dent of mimicry was when a Reddit user stole American artist
Hollie Mengert’s style and open-sourced the style-speciﬁc
model on Reddit [3]. Figure 2 has a side-by-side comparison
of Hollie’s original artwork and plagiarized artwork generated
via style mimicry. Later, famous cartoonist Sarah Andersen re-
ported that AI art models can mimic her cartoon drawings [2],
and other similar incidents abound [54, 100].
Several companies [77] have even hosted style mimicry as
a service, allowing users to upload a few art pieces painted
by victim artists and producing new art in the victim styles.
CivitAI [14] built a large online marketplace where people
share their customized stable diffusion models, ﬁne-tuned on
certain artwork.
3 Collaborating with Artists
Next, we explain our collaborative relationship with profes-
sional artists, and its signiﬁcant impact on our key evaluation
metrics in this paper. We also summarize key results from our
ﬁrst user study on views of AI art and mimicry by members
of the artist community.
1It takes an average of 18.3 minutes on a GTX 1080 GPU
Image generation
Model training 
similarity 
loss 
“a dog 
in space” 
“a dog 
running”
Image 
decoder 
Feature extractor 
(Φ)
ground truth 
image features
generated imagegenerated
image features
generated
image features
Generator 
(G)
training image 
training prompt 
generation prompt
Generator 
(G)
Figure 3. High level model architecture of text-to-image models.
Artists have spoken out against style mimicry in nu-
merous venues, focusing particularly on how it violates
their intellectual property rights and threatens their liveli-
hoods [15, 88, 92, 93]. Others have taken direct action. The
Concept Art Association raised over $200K to ﬁght AI art,
and ﬁled a class action lawsuit in the US against AI art compa-
nies [35]. In November 2022, artists organized a large protest
against ArtStation [92], the large digital art sharing platform
that allowed users to post AI artwork without identiﬁcation.
Anti-AI images ﬂooded the site for several weeks, until Art-
Station banned the protest images [23]. Recently, the Writers
Guild of America (WGA) went on strike demanding contrac-
tual changes to ban generative AI [12].
Members of the professional art community reached out to
us in Sept 2022. We joined online town halls and meetings
alongside hundreds of professionals, including Emmy winners
and artists at major ﬁlm studios. After learning more, we be-
gan an active collaboration with multiple professional artists,
including award-winning artist Karla Ortiz, who leads efforts
defending artists and is lead plaintiff in the class action suit.
The artists helped this project in multiple ways, by 1) sharing
experiences about speciﬁc ways AI-art has impacted them and
their colleagues; 2) sharing domain knowledge about what is
acceptable to artists in terms of perturbations on their art; and
3) helping to widely disseminate our user study to members
of their professional organizations, including the Concept Art
Association and the Animation Guild (TAG839).
Evaluation via Direct Feedback from Artists. Our goal is
to help artists disrupt AI models trying to mimic their artistic
style, without adversely impacting their own artwork. Because
“success” in this context is highly subjective (“Did this AI-art
successfully mimic Karla’s painting style?”), we believe the
only reliable evaluation metric is direct feedback by profes-
sional artists themselves. Therefore, wherever possible, the
evaluation of Glaze is done via detailed user studies engaging
members of the professional artist community, augmented
by an empirical score we develop based on genre prediction
using CLIP models.

Survey # of artists Content
Survey 1 1156
1) Broad views of AI art and style mimicry(§3.1)
2) Glaze’s usability, i.e. acceptable levels of cloaking (§6.3)
3) Glaze performance in disrupting style mimicry (§6.3)
Survey 2
(Extension to Survey 1) 151
1) Additional performance tests (§6.3)
2) Robustness to advanced scenarios (§6.4)
and countermeasures (§7)
3) Additional system evaluation (Appendix A)
Table 1.Information on our user studies: the number of artist participants and
where we report the results of the studies. We sent Survey 2 to some speciﬁc
participants from survey 1 who volunteered to participate in a followup study.
We deployed two user studies during the course of this
project (see Table 1). Both are IRB-approved by our insti-
tution. Both draw participants from professional artists in-
formed via their social circles and professional networks.
The ﬁrst (Survey 1, §3.1, §6.3), asked participants about their
broad views of AI style mimicry, and then presented them
with a number of inputs and outputs of our tool, and asked
them to give ratings corresponding to key metrics we wanted
to evaluate. We select a subset of participants from the ﬁrst
study to participate in a longer and more in-depth study (Sur-
vey 2) where they were asked to evaluate the performance of
Glaze in additional settings (§6.3, §6.4, §7, and Appendix A).
3.1 Artists’ Opinions on Style Mimicry
While we expected artists to view style mimicry negatively,
we wanted to better understand how much individual artists
understood this topic and how many perceived it as a threat.
Here we describe results from Survey 1 to gather perceptions
of the potential impact of AI art on existing artists.
Survey Design. Our survey consisted of both multiple
choice and free response questions to understand how well
people understand the concept of AI art, and how well the
models successfully imitate the style of artists. Additionally,
we asked artists about the extent to which they anticipate the
emergence of AI art to impact their artistic activities, such
as posting their art online and their job security. A handful
of professional artists helped disseminate our survey to their
respective artist community groups. Overall, we collected re-
sponses from 1,207 participants, consisting primarily of pro-
fessional artists (both full-time (46%) and part-time/freelancer
(50%)) and some non-artist members of the art community
who felt invested in the impact of AI art (4%). Of the par-
ticipants who consider themselves artists, their experience
varied: <1 year (13%), 1-5 years (49%), 5-10 years (19%),
10+ years (19%). Participants’ primary art style varied widely,
including: animation, concept art, abstract, anime, game art,
digital 2D/3D, illustration, character artwork, storyboarding,
traditional painting/drawing, graphic design, and others.
Key Results. Our study found that 91% of the artists have
read about AI art extensively, and either know of or worry
about their art being used to train the models. Artists expect
AI mimicry to have a signiﬁcant impact on artist community:
97% artists state it will decrease some artists’ job security;
88% artists state it will discourage new students from studying
art; and 70% artists state it will diminish creativity. “Junior
positions will become extinct,” as stated by one participant.
Many artists (> 89% artists) have already or plan to take
actions because of AI mimicry. Over 95% of artists post their
artwork online. Out of these artists, 53% of them anticipate
reducing or removing their online artwork, if they haven’t
already. Out of these artists, 55% of them believe reducing
their online presence will signiﬁcantly impact their careers.
One participant stated “AI art has unmotivated myself from
uploading more art and made me think about all the years
I spent learning art.” 78% of artists anticipate AI mimicry
would impact their job security, and this percentage increases
to 94% for the job security of newer artists. Further, 24% of
artists believe AI art has already impacted their job security,
and an additional 53% expect to be affected within the next
3 years. Over 51% of artists expressed interest in proactive
measures, such as personally joining class action lawsuits
against AI companies.
Professional artists thought AI mimicry was very successful
at mimicking the style of speciﬁc artists. We showed the
artists examples of original artwork from 23 artists, and the
artwork generated by a model attempting to mimic their styles
(detailed mimicry setup in §6). 77% of artists found the AI
model successfully or very successfully mimic the styles of
victim artists, with one stating “it’s shocking how well AI can
mimic the original artwork.” Additionally,19% of participants
thought the AI mimicry is somewhat successful, leaving only
< 5% of artists rating the mimicry as unsuccessful. Several
artists also pointed out that, as artists, upon close inspection
they could spot differences between the AI art and originals,
but were skeptical the general public would notice them.
A signiﬁcant concern of most participants, surprisingly, is
not just the existence of AI art, but rather scraping of existing
artworks without permission or compensation. As one partic-
ipant stated: “If artists are paid to have their pieces be used
and asked permission, and if people had to pay to use that AI
software with those pieces in it, I would have no problem.”
However, without consent to use their artwork to train the
models, “it’s incredibly disrespectful to the artist to have their
work ‘eaten’ by a machine [after] many years to grow our
skills and develop our styles.”
4 Preliminaries
We propose Glaze, a tool that protects artists against AI style
mimicry. An artist uses Glaze to add small digital perturba-
tions (“cloak”) to images of their own art before sharing on-
line (Figure 5). A text-to-image model that trains on cloaked
images of artwork will learn an incorrect representation of
the artist’s style in feature space i.e., the model’s internal
understanding of artistic styles. When asked to generate art
pieces in victim’s style, the model will fail to mimic the style
of the victim, and instead output art pieces in a recognizably
different style.

Large dataset of text 
and image pairs
post
online
T ext-to-image 
model (generic)
Victim artist
train 
scrape
artwork 
download 
model Mimic’s actions 
fine-tune 
model
Style-specific
model
generate 
Artwork
mimicking
victim’s style 
......
AI company
Figure 4. High level overview of the mimicry attack scenario. The mimic scrapes copyrighted artwork from the victim artist and uses these to ﬁne-tune a
pre-trained, generic text-to-image model. The generic model is trained and open-sourced by an AI company. The mimic then uses the ﬁne-tuned model to
generate artwork in the style of the victim artist.
Here, we ﬁrst introduce the threat model, then discuss exist-
ing alternatives to the AI style mimicry problem. We present
the intuition behind Glaze and detailed design in §5.
4.1 Threat Model
Here we state assumptions for both the artists protecting their
own art and the users training models to replicate their artistic
style. We refer to these AI art model trainers as “mimics.”
Artists. Artists want to share and promote their artwork
online without allowing mimics to train models that repli-
cate their art styles. Sharing art online enables artists to sell
their work and attract commissioned work, fueling their liveli-
hoods (§3). Artists protect themselves by adding impercep-
tible perturbations to their artwork before sharing them as
shown in Figure 5. The goal of the Glaze cloak is to disrupt
the style mimicry process, while only introducing minimal
perturbation on images of the artwork.
We assume the artists have access to moderate comput-
ing resources (e.g., a laptop) and add perturbation to images
of their artwork locally before posting online. We also as-
sume artists have access to some public feature extractor
(e.g., open-source models such as Stable Diffusion). We begin
with assumption that artists use the same feature extractor as
mimics (large majority of mimics use the open-source Stable
Diffusion model). We later relax this assumption.
Mimics. The mimic’s goal is to train a text-to-image model
that generates high-quality art pieces of any subject in the
victim’s style. A mimic could be a well-funded AI company,
e.g., Stability AI or OpenAI, or an individual interested in the
style of victim artist. We assume the mimic has:
• access to the weights of generic text-to-image models well-
trained on large datasets;
• access to art pieces from the target artist;
• signiﬁcant computational power.
We assume the attack scenario where the mimic ﬁne-tunes
its model on images of the artist’s artwork (as shown in Fig-
ure 4). This is stronger than the naive mimic attack without
ﬁne tuning. Finally, we assume the mimic is aware of our pro-
tection tool and can deploy adaptive countermeasures (§7).
4.2 Potential Alternatives and Challenges
A number of related prior works target protection against
invasive and unauthorized facial recognition models. They
proposed “image cloaking” as a tool to prevent a user’s im-
ages from being used to train a facial recognition model of
them [9, 13, 24, 81, 95]. They share a similar high level ap-
proach, by using optimized perturbations that cause cloaked
images to have drastically different feature representations
from original user images. It is possible to adapt existing
cloaking-based systems to protect artists against AI style
mimicry. Protection system would compute a cloak on each
artwork in order to perturb its feature space representation
to be different from its unperturbed representation. This can
succeed if the cloak signiﬁcantly shifts the artwork’s feature
representation, making resulting models generate dramati-
cally different artwork.
We found that in practice, however, existing solutions are
unable to introduce large-enough feature space shifts to
achieve the desired protection. This is due to the properties of
feature spaces in text-to-image models. Face recognition mod-
els classify identities, so their feature spaces mainly represent
identity-related information. On the other hand, text-to-image
models reconstruct original images from extracted features,
so their feature spaces retain more information about the
original image (objects, locations, color, style, etc.). Thus,
producing the same shift in feature representation in a text-
to-image model is much harder (requires more perturbation
budget) than in a classiﬁcation model. This observation is
validated by prior work showing that adversarial perturba-
tions are much less effective at attacking generative mod-
els [29, 39, 85]. Speciﬁcally, [39, 85] found that adversarial
attack methods that are effective at attacking classiﬁers are sig-
niﬁcantly less effective at attacking autoencoders. We empiri-
cally conﬁrm that existing cloaking methods cannot prevent
AI mimicry (§A.1 in Appendix). We show that Fawkes [81]

Original artwork 
scrape artwork
generate 
Cloaked artwork 
Fails to mimic 
victim artist
Glaze 
Cloaked artwork Style-specific
model
Artist (V)
Mimic 
Feature extractor (Φ)
Target style (T)
gefine-tune 
Figure 5. Overview of Glaze, a system that protects victim artists from AI
style mimicry by cloaking their online artwork. ( Top) An artist V applies
the cloaking algorithm (uses a feature extractor Φ and a target style T ) to
generate cloaked versions ofV ’s art pieces. Each cloak is a small perturbation
unnoticeable to human eye. (Bottom) A mimic scrapes the cloaked art pieces
from online and uses them to ﬁne-tune a model to mimic V ’s style. When
prompted to generate artwork in the style of V , mimic’s model will generate
artwork in the target style T , rather than V ’s true style.
and LowKey [13] perform poorly in this setting, even when
artists add highly visible cloaks to their artwork.
For generative models, concurrent work [76] proposes Pho-
toGuard, a method to cloak images to prevent unauthorized
image edits (inpainting) on cloaked images. Similar to exist-
ing cloaking systems, PhotoGuard tries to indiscriminately
minimize all information contained in an image (i.e., the norm
of the feature vector) to prevent models from editing the im-
age. Thus, it is also not effective at mimicry prevention.
Design Challenges. The main reason that existing cloak-
ing methods fail to prevent AI mimicry is because they indis-
criminately shift all features in an image, wasting the cloak
perturbation budget on shifting unnecessary features ( e.g.,
object shape, location, etc.). Protecting artist’s style requires
only shifting features related to the artistic style of victim .
This can be achieved if a text-to-image model learns to draw
objects similar to those drawn by the victim artist as long
as the model cannot mimic the artist’s unique style . Thus,
optimal protection from mimicry requires concentrating the
cloak on style-speciﬁc features.
Unfortunately, identifying and separating out these style-
speciﬁc features is difﬁcult. Even assuming the existence
of interpretability methods that perfectly explain the feature
space of a text-to-image model, there is no clear way to math-
ematically deﬁne and calculate “artistic styles.” In all like-
lihood, any deﬁnition would change across different styles.
For example, “impressionist” likely correlates more strongly
with color features, whereas “cubism” correlates with shape
features. Even across multiple art pieces in the same style, the
style may manifest differently.
Glaze 
Original artwork (originals) 
a) Style transfer 
Style-transferred artwork (targets) 
Style transfer to 
“oil painting by Van Gogh” 
Cloaked artwork 
b) Cloak optimization 
Cloaked artwork is similar to 
the originals in input space
Cloaked artwork is similar 
to targets in Φ’s feature space 
Optimizes cloaks for 
 original artwork
Figure 6. High level overview of howGlaze perturbs the style-speciﬁc fea-
tures of the artwork.a) Glaze style transfers the original artwork to a different
style, which changes its style but leaves other features unaltered. b) Glaze
optimizes a cloak that makes the artwork’s features representation match that
of the style-transferred art, while constraining the amount of visible changes
to the artwork.
Original artwork
“Oil painting”
Style transferred artwork with target:
“Abstract painting”
 “Cubism painting”
Figure 7. Example style-transferred artwork with different target styles.
5 Disrupting Style Mimicry with Glaze
In this section, we introduce Glaze, its design intuition fol-
lowed by the detailed algorithm.
5.1 Design Intuition
Our key intuition is to identify and isolate style-speciﬁc fea-
tures of an artist’s original artwork,i.e., the set of image fea-
tures that correspond to artistic style. Then Glaze computes
cloaks while focusing the perturbation budget on these style-
speciﬁc features to maximize impact on stylistic features.
As discussed, identifying and calculating style-speciﬁc fea-
tures in model’s feature space is difﬁcult due to the poor
interpretability of model features and how art style manifests
differently across artworks. We overcome these two chal-
lenges by designing a style-dependent and artwork-dependent
method that operates at image space. Given an artwork, we
leverage “style transfer,” an end-to-end computer vision tech-
nique, to modify and isolate its style components. “Style
transfer” transforms an image into a new image with a differ-

ent style (e.g., from impressionist style to cubist style) while
keeping other aspects of the image similar (e.g., subject matter
and location).
We leverage style transfer in our protection technique as
follows. Given an original artwork from the victim artist, we
apply style-transfer to produce a similar piece of art with a
different style, e.g., in style of “an oil painting by Van Gogh”
(Figure 6 a). The new version has similar content to the orig-
inal, but its style mirrors that of Van Gogh. We show more
style-transfer examples with different target styles in Figure 7.
Now, we can use the style-transferred artwork as projection
target to guide the perturbation computation. This perturbs
the original artwork’s style-speciﬁc features towards that of
the style-transferred version. We do this by optimizing a cloak
that, when added to the original artwork, makes its feature
representation similar to the style-transferred image. Since
the content is identical between the pair of images, cloak op-
timization will focus its perturbation budget on style features.
5.2 Computing Style Cloaks
Using this approach, we compute style cloaks to disrupt style
mimicry as follows. Given an artwork (x), we use an existing
feature extractor to compute the style-transferred version of x
into target style T : Ω(x,T ). We then compute a style cloakδx,
such that δx moves x’s style-speciﬁc feature representation to
match that of Ω(x,T ) while minimizing visual impact. The
cloak generation optimization is:
min
δx
Dist (Φ(x + δx), Φ(Ω(x,T ))) , (1)
subject to|δx| < p,
where Φ is a generic image feature extractor commonly used
in text-to-image generation tasks, Dist(.) computes the dis-
tance of two feature representations,|δx| measures the percep-
tual perturbation caused by cloaking, and p is the perceptual
perturbation budget.
As discussed in §5.1, the use of the style-transferred image
Ω(x,T ) guides the cloak optimization in Eq (1) to focus on
changing style-speciﬁc image features. To maximize cloak
efﬁcacy, the target style T should be dissimilar from artist’s
original style in the feature space. We discuss our heuristic
for selecting target styles in §5.
5.3 Detailed System Design
Now we present the detailed design of Glaze. Given a vic-
tim artist V , Glaze takes as input the set of V ’s artwork to
be shared online XV , an image feature extractor Φ, a style-
transfer model Ω, and perturbation budget p. Note that in
many cases, a single model (e.g. Stable Diffusion) provides
both Φ and Ω.
Step 1: Choose Target Style. The selected target style T
should be sufﬁciently different fromV ’s style in model feature
space to maximize chances of disrupting style mimicry. For
example, Fauvism and Impressionism are distinct art styles
that often look visually similar to the untrained eye. Image
of an impressionist painting style cloaked to Fauvism might
not produce a visually discernible effect on model-generated
paintings. Note that an artist can maximize their ability to
avoid mimicry if they consistently style cloak all their artwork
towards the same target T .
For a new user, Glaze uses the following algorithm to ran-
domly select T from a set of candidate styles reasonably
different from V ’s style. The algorithm ﬁrst inspects a pub-
lic dataset of artists, each with a speciﬁc style ( e.g., Monet,
Van Gogh, Picasso). For each candidate target artist/style, it
selects a few images in that style and calculates their feature
space centroid using Φ. It also computes V ’s centroid in Φ
using V ’s artwork. Then, it locates the set of candidate styles
whose centroid distance to V ’s centroid is between the50 to
75 percentile of all candidates. Finally, it randomly selects T
from the candidate set.
Step 2: Style transfer. Glaze then leverages a pre-trained
style-transfer model Ω [67] to generate the style-transferred
artwork for optimization. Given each art piece x∈ XV and
target style T , it style transfers x to target style T to produce
style-transferred image Ω(x,T ).
Step 3: Compute cloak perturbation. Then, Glaze com-
putes the cloak perturbation, δx for x, following the optimiza-
tion deﬁned by eq. (1), subject to |δx| < p. Our implemen-
tation uses LPIPS (Learned Perceptual Image Patch Simi-
larity) [106] to bound the perturbation. Different from the
Lp distance used in previous work [8, 40, 71], LPIPS has
gained popularity as a measure of user-perceived image distor-
tion [13, 42, 68]. Bounding cloak generation with this metric
ensures that cloaked versions of images are visually similar
to the originals. We apply the penalty method [56] to solve
the optimization in eq.(1) as follows:
min
δx
||Φ(Ω(x,T )), Φ(x + δx)||2
2 + α· max(LPIPS(δx)− p,0)
(2)
where α controls the impact of the input perturbation. L2
distance is used to calculate feature space distance.
Upload artwork online. Finally, the artist posts the cloaked
artwork online. For artists already with a large online presence,
they can cloak and re-upload artwork on their online portfolio.
While updating online images is not always possible, Glaze
can be effective even when the mimic’s model has signiﬁcant
amount of uncloaked art (§6.4).
5.4 On the Efﬁcacy of Style Cloaks
Glaze’s style cloaks work by shifting feature representation
of artwork in the generator model. But how much shift do we
need in order to have a noticeable impact on mimicked art?
Two reasons suggest that even small shifts in style will
have a meaningful impact in disrupting style mimicry. First,
generative models used for style mimicry have continuous

output spaces, i.e., any shift in image feature representation
results in changes in the generated image. Because genera-
tive models are trained to interpolate their continuous feature
spaces [89, 96], any shift in the model’s representation of
art style results in a new style, a “blend” between the artist
and the chosen target style. Second, mimicked artwork must
achieve reasonable quality and similarity in style to the artist
to be useful. Small shifts in the style space often produce
incoherent blends of conﬂicting styles that are enough to dis-
rupt style mimicry, e.g., thick oil brushstrokes of Van Gogh’s
style mixed into a realism portrait.
These two factors contribute to Glaze’s success in more
challenging scenarios (§6.4), and its robustness against coun-
termeasures (e.g. adversarial training) that succeed against
cloaking tools for facial recognition (§7).
6 Evaluation
In this section, we evaluate Glaze’s efﬁcacy in protecting
artists from style mimicry. We ﬁrst describe the datasets,
models, and experimental conﬁgurations used in our tests.
Then we present the results of Glaze’s protection in a variety
of settings. Due toGlaze’s highly visual nature, we evaluate its
performance using both direct visual assessment by human
artists in a user study, and automated metrics (see §6.2 for
details).
Summary of results. Over 93% of artists surveyed believe
Glaze effectively protects artists’ styles from AI style mimicry
attacks. Protection efﬁcacy remains high in challenging set-
tings, like when the mimic has access to unprotected artwork.
Glaze also achieves high protection performance against a
real-world mimicry-as-a-service platform. Of our 1156 artist
participants, over 92% found the perturbations introduced by
cloaking small enough not to disrupt the value of their art,
and over 88% would like to use Glaze to protect their own
artwork from mimicry attacks.
6.1 Experiment Setup
Mimicry dataset. We evaluate Glaze’s performance in
protecting the styles of the following two groups of artists:
• Current artists: 4 professional artists let us use their art-
work in our experiments. These artists have different
styles and backgrounds ( e.g., full-time/freelancers, water-
color painters/digital artists, well-known/independent). Each
provided us with between26 to 34 private original art pieces
for our experiments. We use perceptual hashing [38] to ver-
ify that none of these are included in existing public datasets
used to train generic text-to-image models (e.g. [10, 78]).
• Historical artists: We also evaluate Glaze’s protection on
195 historical artists ( e.g., van Gogh, Monet) from the
WikiArt dataset [73]. The WikiArt dataset contains 42,129
art pieces from 195 artists. Each art piece is labeled with
its genre (e.g., impressionism, cubism). We randomly sam-
pled 30 art pieces from each artist to use in style mimicry
attacks. Generic text-to-image models found online have
been trained on some artwork from these artists. Using this
art simulates a more challenging scenario in which a famous
artist attempts to disrupt a model that already understands
their style.
Mimicry attack setup. We recreate the strongest-possible
mimicry attack scenario, based on techniques used in real-
world mimicry incidents [3, 70, 100], that works as follows.
First, we take art pieces from the victim artist V and gener-
ate a text caption for each piece using an image captioning
model [49]. The pretrained image captioning model generates
a short sentence to describe the image. We found that this
model can correctly caption protected images (examples in
Figure 18), likely because Glaze focuses on perturbing style
features while the captioning models focus on image con-
tent. Then, we append the artist’s name to each caption,e.g.,
“mountain range by Vincent van Gogh”. Finally, we ﬁne-tune
a pre-trained generic text-to-image model (details below) on
the caption/image pairs.
We use 80% of the art pieces from the victim artists to ﬁne-
tune models that mimic each artist’s style, reserving the rest
for testing. We ﬁne-tune for 3000 optimization steps, which
we ﬁnd achieves the best mimicry performance (Figure 19 in
Appendix). We then use the ﬁne-tuned, style-speciﬁc model
to generate mimicked artwork in style of each victim artist.
We query the model using the generated captions (which
include V ’s name) from the held-out test artwork set. We
generate 5 pieces of mimicked art for each text caption using
different random seeds and compare these to the real victim
art pieces with this caption. Additional details on training and
generation parameters, as well as its sensitivity to random
seed selection and the number of training art pieces are in
Appendix A.2.
Text-to-image models. We use two state-of-the-art, public,
generic text-to-image models in our experiments:
• Stable Diffusion (SD): Stable Diffusion is a popular and high-
performing open-source text-to-image model [83],trained on
11.5 million images from the LAION dataset [78]. SD train-
ing takes over 277 GPU months (on A100 GPU) and costs
around $600K [83]. SD uses diffusion methods to generate
images and achieves state-of-the-art performance on several
benchmarks [67]. Viewed as one of the best open-source
models, SD has powered many recent developments in text-
to-image generation [1,43,57,77]. We use SD version 2.1 in
the paper [83], the most up-to-date version as of December
2022.
• DALL·E-mega (DALL·E-m): DALL·E-m-mega, an updated
version of the more well-known DALL·E-m-mini, is an open-
source model based on OpenAI’s DALL·E-m 1 [65]. The
model leverages a V AE for image generation and is trained
on 17 million images from three different datasets [10, 82,
87]. Training takes 2 months on 256 TPUs [16]. While

DALL·E-m performs worse than diffusion-based models
like SD, we use it to evaluate how Glaze generalizes to
different model architectures.
Glaze conﬁguration. We generate cloaks for each of vic-
tim V ’s art pieces following the methodology of §5.3. First,
we use the target selection algorithm to select a target style
T . We choose from a set of 1119 candidate target styles, col-
lected by querying the WikiArt dataset with artist and genre
names, e.g., “Impressionism painting by Monet” 2. We then
style transfer each victim art piece into the target style lever-
aging the style transfer functionality of stable diffusion model
(stable diffusion model has both text-to-image and style trans-
fer functionality). A style transfer model takes in an original
image and a target prompt as input. Leveraging a similar
diffusion process, the model modiﬁes the original image to
a style similar to that described in the target prompt. More
information on style transfer can be found in [72]. Finally,
we optimize a cloak for each art piece using Eq. 2 by running
the Adam optimizer for 500 steps. We benchmark Glaze’s
runtime on artwork with resolution ranging from 512 to 6000
pixels, using SD’s feature extractor (ViT model with 83 mil-
lion parameters). It takes an average of 1.2 mins on Titan
RTX GPU and 7.3 mins on a single Intel i7 CPU to generate
a cloak for a single piece of art.
In our initial experiments, we assume Glaze generates
cloaks using the same image feature extractor as the mimic
(e.g. SD’s or DALL·E-m’s feature extractor). We relax this
assumption and evaluate Glaze’s performance when artists
and mimics use different feature extractors in §6.4.
6.2 Evaluation Metrics
We evaluate our protection performance using both visual
assessment and feedback from human artists, and a scalable
metric. Here, we describe the setup of our evaluation study
and deﬁne the exact metrics used for evaluation.
Artist-rated protection success rate (Artist-rated PSR):
The user studies ask artists to rate the performance of Glaze.
We generate a dataset of mimicry attacks on 13 victim artists
(the 4 current artists and 9 randomly chosen historical artists)
across 23 protection scenarios (including ones in §7). For
each participant, we randomly select a set of mimicry attacks
out of these 13× 23 settings and ask them to evaluate protec-
tion success. For each mimicry attempt, we show participants
4 mimicked art pieces and4 original art pieces from the victim
artist. Using original art pieces as an indicator of the human
artist’s style, we ask participants to consider the mimicked
art, and rate the success of Glaze’s protection on a 5-level
Likert scale (ranging from “not successful at all” to “very
successful”). Each mimicry attempt is evaluated by at least
10 participants. We deﬁne artist-rated PSR as the percent of
participants who rated Glaze’s protection as “successful” or
2One artist may paint in multiple styles, resulting in multiple candidate
target styles from a single artist.
Generic
model
Artist
dataset
w/o Glaze w/ Glaze (p=0.05)
Artist-rated
PSR
CLIP-based
genre shift
Artist-rated
PSR
CLIP-based
genre shift
SD Current 4 .6± 0.3% 2 .4± 0.2% 94 .3± 0.8% 96 .4 + 0.5%
Historical 4 .2± 0.2% 1 .3± 0.2% 93 .3 + 0.6% 96 .0 + 0.3%
DALL·E-m Current 31 .9± 3.5% 6 .4± 0.8% 97 .4± 0.2% 97 .4 + 0.3%
Historical 29 .8± 2.4% 5 .8± 0.6% 96 .8± 0.3% 97 .1 + 0.2%
Table 2. Glaze has a high protection success rate, as measured by artists and
CLIP, against style mimicry attacks. We compare protection success when
artists do not use Glaze vs. when they do (with perturbation budget 0.05).
“very successful.” Our user studies primarily focus on artists,
as they would be most affected by this technology. We found
though, that not all current artists despise AI art, and some
view it as a new avenue for a different form of artistry.
CLIP-based genre shift: We deﬁne a new metric based
on CLIP [62], using the intuition that Glaze succeeds if the
mimicked art has been impacted enough byGlaze to be classi-
ﬁed into a different art genrefrom the artist’s original artwork.
We leverage CLIP model’s ability to classify art images into
art genres. Given a set of mimicked art targeting an artistV ,
we deﬁne CLIP-based genre shift rate as the percentage of
mimicked art whose top 3 predicted genres do not containV ’s
original genre. A higher genre shift rate means more mim-
icked art belongs to a different genre from the victim artist,
and thus means more successful protection.
To calculate the genre shift we use a set of 27 historical
genres from WikiArt dataset and 13 digital art genres [33] as
the candidate output labels. In Appendix A.3, we show that a
pre-trained CLIP model is able to achieve high genre classiﬁ-
cation performance. We report the average CLIP-based genre
shift for all 199 victim artists across all mimicked artworks.
We use CLIP-based genre shift as a supplemental metric to
evaluate Glaze because it is only able to detect style changes
at the granularity of art genres. However, mimicry attacks also
fail when Glaze causes the mimicked artwork quality to be
very low, something that CLIP cannot measure. Measuring
the quality of generated image has been a challenging and
ongoing research problem in computer vision [5, 36, 41].
6.3 Glaze’s Protection Performance
Style mimicry success when Glaze is not used. Mimicry
attacks are very successful when the mimic has access to a
victim’s original (unmodiﬁed) artwork. Examples of mim-
icked artwork can be found in Figure 8. The leftmost two
columns of Figure 8 show a victim artist’s original artwork,
while the third column depicts mimicked artwork generated
by a style-speciﬁc model trained on victim’s original artwork
when Glaze is not used. In our user study, over > 95% of
respondents rated the attack as successful. Table 2, row 1,
gives the artist-rated and CLIP-based genre shift for mimicry
attacks on unprotected art.
SD models produce stronger mimicry attacks than DALL·E-
m models, according to our user study (see Table 2). This is

Original artwork Mimicked art 
when Glaze not used
Glaze target
style
Mimicked art
when Glaze is used
p = 0.05 p = 0.1
Oil painting 
by Van Gogh 
Abstract expressionism 
by Norman Bluhm 
Artist A
(Karla Ortiz)
Artist B
(Nathan Fowkes) 
Cubism by Picasso
Artist C
(Claude Monet)
Glaze perturbation size
Figure 8. Example Glaze protection results for three artists. Columns 1-2: artist’s original artwork; column 3: mimicked artwork when artist does not use
protection; column 4: style-transferred artwork (original artwork in column 1 is the source) used for cloak optimization and the name of target style; column
5-6: mimicked artwork when artist uses cloaking protection with perturbation budget p = 0.05 or p = 0.1 respectively. All mimicry examples here use SD-based
models.
0% 20%40%60%80%100%
Cloaked, p=0.2
Cloaked, p=0.1
Cloaked, p=0.05
No protection
Success of cloaking protection
not successful at all not very successful
somewhat successful successful
very successful
Figure 9. Glaze’s cloaking protection success in-
creases as cloak perturbation budget increases. The
top row of the ﬁgure shows baseline performance
with the mimic trains on uncloaked images (p=0).
Perturbation
budget
Artist-rated
PSR
CLIP-based
genre shift
0 (no cloak) 4 .6± 1.4% 2 .4± 0.8%
0.05 93 .3± 0.6% 96 .0± 0.3%
0.1 95 .9± 0.4% 98 .2± 0.1%
0.2 96 .1± 0.3% 98 .5± 0.1%
Table 3. Performance of our system (artist-rated
protection success rate and CLIP-based genre shift
rate) increases as the perturbation budget increases.
(SD model, averaged over all victim artists).
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
p=0.2
p=0.1
p=0.05
p=0.03
Willingness to post cloaked artwork
very unwilling somewhat unwilling
neutral somewhat willing
very willing
Figure 10. Artists’ willingness to post cloaked art-
work in place of the original decreases as perturba-
tion budget of the cloaks increases.
unsurprising, as DALL·E-m models generally produce lower-
quality generated images. CLIP-based genre shift does not
reﬂect this phenomenon, as this metric does not assess image
quality.
Glaze’s success at preventing style mimicry. Glaze
makes mimicry attacks markedly less successful, as shown
in Figure 8. Columns 5 and 6 (from left) show mimicked
artwork when the style-speciﬁc models are trained on artwork
protected by Glaze. For reference, column 4 shows an exam-
ple style-transferred artwork Ω(x,T ) used to compute Glaze
cloaks for the protected art pieces. Overall, Glaze achieves
> 93.3% artist-rated PSR and > 96.0% CLIP-based genre
shift (see Table 2). Glaze’s protection performance is slightly
higher for current artists than for historical artists. This is
likely because the historical artists’ images are present in
the training datasets of our generic models (SD, DALL ·E-
m), highlighting the additional challenge of protecting well-
known artists whose style was already learned by the generic
models.
How large of perturbations will artists tolerate? Increas-
ing the Glaze perturbation budget enhances protection per-
formance. We observe that both artist-rated and CLIP-based
genre shift increase with perturbation budget (see Figure 9, Ta-
ble 3, and Figure 20). Given this tradeoff between protection
success and Glaze protection visibility on original artwork,
we evaluate how perturbation size impacts artists’ willingness
to use Glaze.
We ﬁnd that artists are willing to add fairly largeGlaze per-
turbations to their artwork in exchange for protection against
mimicry. To measure this, we show3 randomly chosen pairs
of original/cloaked artwork to each of the 1,156 artists in our
ﬁrst study. For each art pair, we ask the artist whether they
would be willing to post the cloaked artwork (instead of the
original, unmodiﬁed version) on their personal website. More

Original p = 0.05 p = 0.1 p = 0.2
Figure 11. Original artwork and cloaked artwork computed using three dif-
ferent cloak perturbation budgets.
than 92% of artists select “willing” or “very willing” when
p = 0.05. This number only slightly increases to94.3% when
p = 0.03. Figure 10 details artists’ preferences as perturba-
tion budget increases. (see Figure 11 for examples of cloaked
artwork with increasing p). Based on these results, we use
perturbation budget p = 0.05 for all our experiments, since
most artists are willing to tolerate this perturbation size.
Surprisingly, over 32.8% artists are willing to use cloaks
with p = 0.2, which is clearly visible to human eye (see Fig-
ure 11). While we are surprised by this high perturbation
tolerance, in our follow-up free response artists noted that
they would be willing to tolerate large perturbations because
of the devastating consequence if their styles are stolen. One
participant stated that “I am willing to sacriﬁce a bit image
quality for protection.” Many artists (> 80%) also noted that
they have already used traditional, more visually disruptive
techniques to protect their artwork online when posting on-
line, i.e., adding watermark or reducing image resolution. One
participant stated that “I already use low to medium resolution
images only for online posting, thus this would not impact
my quality control too much.”
6.4 Glaze’s Protection Robustness
Next, we test Glaze’s efﬁcacy in more challenging scenarios.
First, we measure performance when the mimic uses a dif-
ferent feature extractor for mimicry than the one used by the
artist to generate the cloak. Second, we measure what hap-
pens when the mimic has uncloaked artwork samples from the
victim. Due to the poor mimicry performance of DALL·E-m,
we focus our evaluation using SD as the generic model.
Artist/mimic use different feature extractors. In the real
world, it is possible that the mimic will use a different model
(and thus a different image feature extractor) for style mimicry
than the one used by the victim artist to cloak their artwork.
While the feature extractors may still be similar because of
the well-known transferability property between large mod-
els [18, 58, 79, 84, 101], their differences could reduce the
efﬁcacy of cloaking. We test this scenario using three feature
extractors— Φ-A, Φ-B, and Φ-C. Φ-A and Φ-B have different
model architectures (autoencoder-KL [67] vs. VQ-V AE [65])
Artist
dataset
w/o Glaze w/ Glaze (p=0.05)
Artist-rated
PSR
CLIP-based
genre shift
Artist-rated
PSR
CLIP-based
genre shift
Current 6 .2± 0.5% 3 .8± 0.3% 92 .5± 0.5% 94 .2 + 0.3%
Historical 7 .2± 0.6% 3 .3± 0.4% 92 .1 + 0.3% 93 .9 + 0.4%
Table 4. Performance of Glaze against real-world mimicry service (sce-
nario.gg). Mimicry service achieves high mimicry success when no protec-
tion is used. When Glaze is used, the mimicry service has low performance.
but are both trained on the ImageNet dataset [19]. Φ-A and
Φ-C have different model architectures (autoencoder-KL vs
VQ-V AE) and training datasets (ImageNet vs. CelebA [48]).
In our experiments, the victim artist uses one feature ex-
tractor (either Φ-B or Φ-C) to optimize cloaked artwork, and
the mimic trains their style-speciﬁc models with SD models
using Φ-A. Despite the difference in victim/mimic extractors,
Glaze’s protection remains highly successful (left half of Fig-
ure 12)—the style of mimicked artwork remains distinct from
artist’s true style. Artist-rated and CLIP-based genre shift
measurements conﬁrm this observation. Artist-rated PSR is
> 90.2%, while CLIP-based genre shift is> 94.0%. The PSR
is slightly higher when the two feature extractors only differ
in architectures (Φ-B to Φ-A) than when they differ in both
architecture and training data (Φ-C to Φ-A).
Mimic has access to uncloaked artwork. Another chal-
lenging scenario is when the mimic gains access to some
uncloaked artwork from victim artists. This is a realistic sce-
nario for many prominent artists with a large online presence.
As expected, Glaze’s protection performance decreases when
the mimic has access to more uncloaked artwork (right side
of Figure 12). As the ratio of uncloaked/cloaked art in the
mimic’s dataset increases, the mimicked artwork becomes
more similar to artist’s original style. Yet,Glaze is still rea-
sonably effective (87.2% artist-rated PSR) even when artists
can only cloak 25% of their artwork. This validates our hy-
pothesis in §5.4 that cloaking will have a noticeable effect as
long as the mimic has some cloaked training data.
A mimic with access to a large amount of uncloaked art-
work is still an issue for Glaze. Fortunately, in our user study,
we found that 1) many artists constantly create and share new
artwork online, which can be cloaked to offset the percent-
age of uncloaked artwork, and 2) many artists change their
artistic style over time. In our user study, we asked artists
to estimate the number of unique art pieces they currently
have online (M) and the estimated number of art pieces they
anticipate uploading each subsequent year (Y ). Among artists
with an existing online presence, over40% have Y /M > 25%,
meaning that one year from now, > 20% of their total online
artwork would be cloaked (if they start using Glaze immedi-
ately). More than 81% of artists also stated that their art style
has changed over their career, and half of these said that theft
of their old, outdated styles is less concerning.

Artist: Φ-A 
Mimic: Φ-A 
Artist: Φ-B 
Mimic: Φ-A 
Artist: Φ-C 
Mimic: Φ-A 
Artist-rated PSR 93.5 + 0.6% 91.3 + 0.5% 90.2 + 0.8%
Artist:  no cloaking
Mimic: Φ-A 
Attempts to 
mimic artist A
4.3 ± 0.2%
0% cloaked 75% cloaked 50% cloaked 25% cloaked 
Attempts to 
mimic artist B
87.2 ± 1.1% 90.1 ± 0.8% 91.5 ± 0.9% 4.3 ± 0.2%
CLIP-based genre shift 96.0 ± 0.3% 94.8 ± 0.4% 94.0 ± 0.4%1.4 ± 0.2% 90.3 ± 0.8% 93.8 ± 0.4% 94.7 ± 0.3%1.4 ± 0.2%
Feature extractors used by artist and mimic Percentage of artwork cloaked 
Figure 12. Glaze remains successful under two challenging scenarios. Left: when artist and mimic use different feature extractors. Right: when artists can only
cloak a portion of their artwork in mimic’s dataset. Bottom of the ﬁgure shows artist-rated PSR and CLIP-based genre shift for the corresponding setting.
Denoised
Gaussian noise level
Attempts to 
mimic artist A
Artist-rated PSR
σ = 0.05
92.9 ± 0.5%
σ = 0.1
91.2 ± 0.7%
σ = 0.15
91.6 ± 0.5% 89.3 ± 1.2%
Attempts to 
mimic artist B
Figure 13. Glaze’s protection performance remains high as mimic adds an
increasing amount of Gaussian noise to the cloaked artwork. Even when the
mimic adds denoising (last column), Glaze’s protection persists.
6.5 Real-World Performance
Next, we test Glaze against a real-world style mimicry-as-
a-service system, scenario.gg [77]. Scenario.gg is a web
service that allows users to upload a set of images in a speciﬁc
style. The service then trains a model to mimic the style
and returns an API endpoint that allows the user to generate
mimicked images in the trained style. The type of model or
mimicry method used by the service is unknown.
Glaze remains effective against scenario.gg. We ask
scenario.gg to mimic the style from a set of cloaked or un-
cloaked artwork from 4 current artists and 19 historical artists.
Table 4 shows that when no protection is used, scenario.gg
can successfully mimic the victim style (< 7.2% protection
success). The mimicry success of scenario.gg is lower
than our mimicry technique, likely because scenario.gg
trains the model for fewer iterations due to computational
constraints. When we use Glaze to cloak the artwork and
upload the cloaked artwork, scenario.gg fails to mimic the
victim style (> 92.1% artist-rated PSR and > 93.9% CLIP-
based genre shift rate) as shown in Table 4.
Upscaled
JPEG compression level
Attempts to 
mimic artist A
Artist-rated PSR
20 
93.4 ± 0.8%
15 
92.3 ± 0.6%
10 
87.4 ± 0.9% 85.3 ± 1.3%
Attempts to 
mimic artist B
Figure 14. Glaze’s protection performance remains high as mimic adds JPEG
compression to the cloaked artwork. Even when the mimic also upscales the
mimicked images (last column), Glaze’s protection persists.
7 Countermeasures
We consider potential countermeasures a mimic could employ
to reduce the effectiveness ofGlaze. We consider the strongest
adversarial setting, in which the mimic has white-box access
to our protection system, i.e., access to the feature extractor
used and protection algorithm. In our experiments, we assume
the mimic uses the SD model as the generic model and test the
efﬁcacy of each countermeasure on the 13 victim artists from
§6.2. Here, we focus on artist-rated PSR metric, because many
countermeasures trade off image quality for mimicry efﬁcacy,
and CLIP-based metric does not consider image quality.
Image transformation. A popular approach to mitigate
the impact of small image perturbations, like those intro-
duced by Glaze, is to transform training images before using
them for model training [7, 25]. In our setting, the mimic
could augment the cloaked artwork before ﬁne-tuning their
model on them to potentially reduce cloak efﬁcacy. We ﬁrst
test Glaze’s resistance to two popular image transformations,
adding Gaussian noise and image compression. We also con-
sider a stronger version of this countermeasure that then tries

1K steps 3K steps 5K steps 10K steps
Number of robust training steps
Artist-rated PSR
Attempts to 
mimic artist A
Attempts to 
mimic artist B
92.2 ± 0.8% 89.3 ± 1.3% 91.3 ± 0.9% 95.3 ± 0.3%
Figure 15. Glaze’s protection performance remains high against robust train-
ing countermeasure proposed by Radiya et al. . The protection performance
ﬁrst decreases then increases as mimic robustly trains the model with an
increasing number of steps.
to correct the image quality degradation introduced by the
transformations.
Transforming cloaked artwork does not defeat Glaze’s pro-
tection. Figure 13 shows that as the magnitude of Gaussian
noise (σ) increases, the quality of mimicked artwork decreases
as fast as or faster than cloak effectiveness. This is because
models trained on noisy images learn to generate noisy im-
ages. We observe a similar outcome when mimic uses JPEG
compression (Figure 14), where image resolution and quality
degrade due to heavy compression. Artists-rated PSR de-
creases slightly but remains above > 87.4% across both types
of data transformations. Artists consider Glaze’s protection
to be successful when mimicked artwork is of poor quality.
The mimic can take this countermeasure one step further
by reversing the quality degradation introduced by the nois-
ing/compression process. Speciﬁcally, a mimic can run image
denoising or image upscaling tools on the mimicked artwork
(e.g., ones shown in Figure 13 and 14) to increase their quality.
We found this approach improves generated image quality
but still does not allow for successful mimicry. For denoising,
we ran a state-of-the-art CNN-based image denoiser [104]
that is speciﬁcally trained to remove “additive Gaussian noise”
(the same type of noise added to cloaked artwork). The last
column of Figure 13 shows the denoised image (using the
noisy mimicked image when σ = 0.2 as the input). While the
process removes signiﬁcant amounts of noise, the denoised
artwork still has many artifacts, especially around complex
areas of the artwork (e.g., human face). We observe similar
results for image upscaling, where we use a diffusion-based
image upscaler [83] to improve the quality of compressed im-
ages (Figure 14). Overall, our artist-rated protection success
rate remains > 85.3% against this improved countermeasure.
Radiya et al. [64] robust training. Radiya et al. [64]
design a robust training method to defeat cloaking tools like
Fawkes [81] and Lowkey [13] in the face recognition setting.
At a high level, this method augments the attacker’s training
dataset with some cloaked images generated by the cloaking
tool and thecorrect output labels. Training on such data makes
the model more robust against cloak perturbations on unseen
cloaked images at inference time, and thus, can potentially
circumvent the protection.
We test if this robust training approach can defeat Glaze.
We assume the mimic ﬁrst robustly trains the feature extrac-
tors in their generic models using cloaked artwork generated
by Glaze, and then trains the generator model to generate im-
ages from the robust feature space. Finally, the mimic uses the
robust generic model for style mimicry as in §6. We discuss
the detailed robust training setup in Appendix A.4.
Glaze performance remains high, even if the mimic ro-
bustly trains the generic model for many iterations before
using it for style mimicry (see Figure 15). As the model be-
comes more robust, the mimicked artwork is less impacted by
cloaking (less inﬂuenced of the target style). However, robust
training greatly degrades mimicked image quality, prevent-
ing successful mimicry. Overall, the artist-rated PSR remains
> 88.7%. To mitigate robust training’s impact on image qual-
ity, we explore an alternative robust training method, where
we robustly train a new feature extractor designed to remove
cloak’s impact while operating in the original feature space
(thus no need to change the image generator). We found this
robust training approach is also ineffective (details in §A.4).
As discussed in §5.4, Glaze remains reasonably effective
against Radiya et al. because 1) the continuous output space
of the generative model, and 2) high quality requirement of art
generation. Robust training reduces cloaking’s effectiveness
but cannot completely remove its impact. In the classiﬁcation
case (facial recognition), this reduced effectiveness only man-
ifests in small changes in classiﬁcation conﬁdence (compared
to no cloaking) and often does not change the discrete classiﬁ-
cation outcome. However, in the context of generator models,
the continuous output space means that even less-effective
cloaks still directly affect the mimicked artwork. Combined
with the high quality requirement, the reduced protection ef-
fect is enough to disrupt style mimicry, as shown in Figure 15.
Additional robust training simply degrades generation quality,
rather than reducing cloaking efﬁcacy.
Outlier Detection. Another countermeasure could involve
leveraging outlier detection to identify and remove protected
images [80, 90, 91]. We test Glaze’s robustness to a state-
of-the-art outlier detection method that leverages contrastive
training [91]. Contrastively trained models project data into a
well-separated feature space, which the mimic could leverage.
We assume the mimic has a ground truth set (20) of original
artworks from a given artist. The mimic ﬁrst projects these
art pieces into the feature space of a model trained with con-
trastive loss on ImageNet dataset [91]. The mimic then trains a
one-class SVM outlier detector [44] using these ground truth
features. Now, given a new artwork from the same artists,
the mimic detects whether the artwork is an outlier using
the detector. Detection results on 4 current artists (§6) show
that outlier detection has limited effectiveness against Glaze

(< 65% precision and < 53% recall at detecting Glaze pro-
tected images).
8 Limitations and Releasing Glaze
We conclude with a discussion of the limitations of the current
system, then describe our experiences during and after the
Glaze release.
Limitations. First, protection from Glaze relies on artists
cloaking a portion of their art in the mimic model’s training
dataset. This is challenging for established artists because 1)
their styles have matured over the years and are more stable,
and 2) many of their art pieces have already been downloaded
from art repositories like ArtStation and DeviantArt. These
artists’ styles can be mimicked using only older artworks
collected before the release ofGlaze. While artists can prevent
mimics from training on newer artwork, they need to rely on
opt-out and removal options at art repositories to stop style
mimicry.
Second, a system like Glaze that protects artists faces an
inherent challenge of being future-proof. Any technique we
use to cloak artworks today might be overcome by a future
countermeasure, possibly rendering previously protected art
vulnerable. While we are under no illusion that Glaze will
remain future-proof in the long run, we believe it is an impor-
tant and necessary ﬁrst step towards artist-centric protection
tools to resist invasive AI mimicry. We hope thatGlaze and
followup projects will provide some protection to artists while
longer term (legal, regulatory) efforts take hold.
Releasing Glaze and managing expectations. We re-
leased Glaze as a free application on Mac and Windows in
March 2023. We have repeatedly communicated Glaze’s limi-
tations to users, both on our website and in communications to
artists via our download page, on Twitter, in emails to artists,
etc. In these communications, we clearly state that Glaze
is not a permanent solution against AI mimicry and could
potentially be defeated by future attacks.
As of June 2023, Glaze has been downloaded > 740K
times by artists around the world. Reception on social media
and emails to our lab have been extremely enthusiastic and
positive. Artists have helped design Glaze’s user interface,
made how-to videos on YouTube, and managed ad campaigns
on Instagram to spur adoption in the community. Based on
numerous requests on social media and via emails, we plan
to test and deploy a web service in Summer 2023 to expand
Glaze access to artists who lack compute and GPUs.
One excellent outcome from the Glaze release has been the
technical discussions it has spurred with a variety of stake-
holders. We began and are continuing collaborative efforts
to advocate for artists rights, with art-centric social networks,
advocate groups in the US (CAA) and the EU (EGAIR), gov-
ernment representatives, and companies who want to protect
the IP of their images/characters.
Glazed art Plagiarized art by PEZ
Figure 16. Glazed image and generated image from PEZ mimicry method.
The original image is Musa Victoriosa, a new painting created by Karla Ortiz
to be the ﬁrst artwork to be released publicly under Glaze protection.
Glazed art after
pixel smoothing
Plagiarized artwork
(trained on originl art)
Plagiarized artwork
(trained on smoothed Glazed art)
(a) (b) (c)
Figure 17. (a) Smoothed artwork by applying pixel smoother on Glazed art-
work, (b) plagiarized artwork generated by training on original (unprotected)
artwork, and (c) plagiarized artwork generated by training on Glazed artwork
that was later pixel-smoothed.
Real-world countermeasures. Finally, we want to de-
scribe our experiences deploying Glaze in an adversarial set-
ting. In the 3 months since initial release, multiple groups
have sought to attack or bypass Glaze protection. While sev-
eral attempts had minimal impact, we describe the two most
serious attempts here and evaluate their effectiveness.
The ﬁrst attack [51] leverages a newer style mimicry
method [94], reverse engineering with PEZ. PEZ is able to
perform high-quality style mimicry using a single original
image from the original artist. Initial tests showed Glaze is
robust against PEZ style mimicry (Figure 16). Glaze remains
effective likely because Glaze directly modiﬁes the feature
representation of the art, and is thus effective against stronger
mimicry attempts.
A second category of attacks tries to perform pixel-level
image smoothing to remove cloaks added by Glaze [105].
This applies bilateral ﬁlters on Glazed images repeatedly,
seeking to remove all added perturbations. We evaluate this
attack on Glazed artwork in §6 and ﬁne-tuning a model on the
smoothed images. Figure 17 shows Glaze remains effective
against pixel smoothing. This result is consistent with prior
work showing that image smoothing cannot prevent adversar-
ial perturbations [102].

Finally, while we have not yet observed any successful
attacks against Glaze, we are continuously exploring design
improvements to further enhance robustness against potential
future countermeasures.
Acknowledgements
We thank our anonymous reviewers and shepherd for their
insightful feedback. We also thank Karla Ortiz, Lyndsey Gal-
lant, Nathan Fowkes, Kim Van Deun, Jon Lam, Eveline Fröh-
lich, Edit Ballai, Kat Loveland, Autumn Beverly and many
other artists, without whom this project would not be possible.
This work is supported in part by NSF grants CNS-2241303,
CNS-1949650, and the DARPA GARD program. Opinions,
ﬁndings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in
this material are those of the authors and do not necessarily
reﬂect the views of any funding agencies.
References
[1] AI R ENDER . AI Render - Stable Diffusion in Blender. , 2022.
[2] ANDERSEN , S. The Alt-Right Manipulated My Comic. Then A.I.
Claimed It. The New York Times, 2022.
[3] BAIO , A. Invasive Diffusion: How one unwilling illustrator found
herself turned into an AI model, 2022.
[4] BALAJI , Y., ET AL . edifﬁ: Text-to-image diffusion models with an
ensemble of expert denoisers. arXiv:2211.01324 (2022).
[5] BLAU, Y., AND MICHAELI , T. The perception-distortion tradeoff. In
Proc. of CVPR (2018).
[6] BRITTAIN , B. AI-created images lose U.S. copyrights in test for new
technology. Reuters, February 2023.
[7] CARLINI , N., AND WAGNER , D. Adversarial examples are not easily
detected: Bypassing ten detection methods. In Proc. of AISec (2017).
[8] CARLINI , N., AND WAGNER , D. Towards evaluating the robustness
of neural networks. In Proc. of IEEE S&P (2017).
[9] CHANDRASEKARAN , V., ET AL . Face-off: Adversarial face obfusca-
tion. PETS 2 (2020), 369–390.
[10] CHANGPINYO , S., S HARMA , P., D ING , N., AND SORICUT , R. Con-
ceptual 12m: Pushing web-scale image-text pre-training to recognize
long-tail visual concepts. In Proc. of CVPR (2021).
[11] CHEN , W., H U, H., S AHARIA , C., AND COHEN , W. W. Re-imagen:
Retrieval-augmented text-to-image generator. arXiv:2209.14491
(2022).
[12] CHENEY , A. Hundreds of animation guild members join WGA writers
on picket line for ﬁrst time. ABC7 News, May 2023.
[13] CHEREPANOVA , V., ET AL . Lowkey: Leveraging adversarial attacks
to protect social media users from facial recognition. In ICLR (2021).
[14] C IVITAI . https://civitai.com, 2022.
[15] CLARKE , L. When AI can make art – what does it mean for creativity?
The Guardian, Nov 2022.
[16] D AYMA, B. DALLE Mega - Training Journal, 2022.
[17] D AYMA, B., ET AL . Dalle mini, 2021.
[18] DEMONTIS , A., ET AL . Why do adversarial attacks transfer? ex-
plaining transferability of evasion and poisoning attacks. In Proc. of
USENIX Security (2019).
[19] DENG , J., D ONG , W., S OCHER , R., L I, L.-J., L I, K., AND FEI-FEI,
L. Imagenet: A large-scale hierarchical image database. In Proc. of
CVPR (2009).
[20] DIXIT , P. Meet the three artists behind a landmark lawsuit against AI
art generators. BuzzFeedNews, January 2023.
[21] DRYHURST , M. AI art and the problem of consent. ArtReview,
January 2023.
[22] EDWARDS , B. Artists stage mass protest against AI-generated artwork
on artstation. Ars Technica, December 2022.
[23] ELIAÇIK , E. Does ArtStation become PromptStation? Data Economy,
Jan. 2023.
[24] EVTIMOV , I., S TURMFELS , P., AND KOHNO , T. Foggysight: A
scheme for facial lookup privacy. PETS 3 (2021).
[25] FEINMAN , R., C URTIN , R. R., S HINTRE , S., AND GARDNER , A. B.
Detecting adversarial samples from artifacts. arXiv:1703.00410
(2017).
[26] FLUX , E. What does the rise of AI mean for the future of art? Sydney
Morning Herald, Dec. 2022.
[27] FOX, V. AI art & the ethical concerns of artists. Beautiful Bizarre,
March 2023.
[28] GAL, R., ET AL . An image is worth one word: Personalizing text-to-
image generation using textual inversion. arXiv:2208.01618 (2022).
[29] GONDIM -RIBEIRO , G., T ABACOF , P., AND VALLE , E. Adversarial
attacks on variational autoencoders. arXiv:1806.04646 (2018).
[30] GROWCOOT , M. Midjourney founder admits to using a ‘hundred
million’ images without consent. PetaPixel, Dec 2022.
[31] HEIDORN , C. Mind-Boggling Midjourney Statistics in 2022. Tok-
enized, 2022.
[32] HEIKKILA , M. This artist is dominating AI-generated art. and he’s
not happy about it. MIT Technology Review, Sept 2022.
[33] H OARE , A. Digital Illustration Styles. Illustrators, 2021.
[34] IVANENKO , N. Midjourney v4: an incredible new version of the AI
image generator. Mezha, 2022.
[35] JOSEPH SAVERI LAW FIRM LLP. Class Action Filed Against Stabil-
ity AI, Midjourney, and DeviantArt for DMCA Violations, Right of
Publicity Violations, Unlawful Competition, Breach of TOS, 2023.
[36] KARRAS , T., ET AL . Training generative adversarial networks with
limited data. In Proc. of NeurIPS (2020).
[37] KAWAR, B., ET AL . Imagic: Text-based real image editing with
diffusion models. Proc. of CVPR (2023).
[38] KE, Y., ET AL . Efﬁcient near-duplicate detection and sub-image
retrieval. In Proc. of MM (2004).
[39] KOS, J., F ISCHER , I., AND SONG , D. Adversarial examples for
generative models. In Proc. of SPW (2018).
[40] KURAKIN , A., G OODFELLOW , I., AND BENGIO , S. Adversarial
examples in the physical world. arXiv:1607.02533 (2016).
[41] KYNKÄÄNNIEMI , T., K ARRAS , T., A ITTALA , M., A ILA , T., AND
LEHTINEN , J. The role of imagenet classes in fréchet inception
distance. arXiv:2203.06026 (2022).
[42] LAIDLAW , C., S INGLA , S., AND FEIZI , S. Perceptual adversarial
robustness: Defense against unseen threat models. arXiv:2006.12655
(2020).
[43] LEVINE , G. A New Stable Diffusion Plug-In For GIMP & Krita.
80.lv, Sept. 2022.
[44] LI, K.-L., H UANG , H.-K., T IAN , S.-F., AND XU, W. Improving
one-class SVM for anomaly detection. In Proc. of IEEE CAT (2003).
[45] LI, W., ET AL . Object-driven text-to-image synthesis via adversarial
training. In Proc. of CVPR (2019).

[46] LI, Y., FAN, H., H U, R., F EICHTENHOFER , C., AND HE, K. Scaling
language-image pre-training via masking. arXiv:2212.00794 (2022).
[47] LIU, G. The world’s smartest artiﬁcial intelligence just made its ﬁrst
magazine cover. Cosmopolitan, June 2022.
[48] LIU, Z., L UO, P., WANG , X., AND TANG , X. Deep learning face
attributes in the wild. In Proc. of ICCV (Dec. 2015).
[49] LUO, Z., X I, Y., Z HANG , R., AND MA, J. VC-GPT: Visual con-
ditioned GPT for end-to-end generative vision-and-language pre-
training. arXiv:2201.12723 (2022).
[50] MANSIMOV , E., P ARISOTTO , E., B A, J. L., AND SALAKHUTDINOV ,
R. Generating images from captions with attention.arXiv:1511.02793
(2015).
[51] MARX , D. https://twitter.com/DigThatData/status/16363
86617392009224.
[52] MENG , C., ET AL . On distillation of guided diffusion models.
arXiv:2210.03142 (2022).
[53] M IDJOURNEY . Community Showcase, 2022.
[54] MURPHY , B. P. Is Lensa AI Stealing From Human Art? An Expert
Explains The Controversy. ScienceAlert, 2022.
[55] NGUYEN , K. AI is causing student artists to rethink their creative
career plans. KQED Arts, April 2023.
[56] NOCEDAL , J., AND WRIGHT , S. Numerical optimization, series in
operations research and ﬁnancial engineering. 2006.
[57] N OVEL AI. NovelAI changelog, 2022.
[58] PAPERNOT , N., M CDANIEL , P., AND GOODFELLOW , I. Transfer-
ability in machine learning: From phenomena to black-box attacks
using adversarial samples. arXiv:1605.07277 (2016).
[59] PEREZ , M. AI Art Generator Cupixel Rakes in 5M From Craft Store
JOANN. Built in Boston, August 2022.
[60] PLUNKETT , L. AI creating ‘art’ is an ethical and copyright nightmare.
Kotaku, August 2022.
[61] POPLI , N. He Used AI to Publish a Children’s Book in a Weekend.
Artists Are Not Happy About It. Time, Dec. 2022.
[62] RADFORD , A., ET AL . Learning transferable visual models from
natural language supervision. In Proc. of ICML (2021).
[63] RADFORD , A., M ETZ , L., AND CHINTALA , S. Unsupervised rep-
resentation learning with deep convolutional generative adversarial
networks. arXiv:1511.06434 (2015).
[64] RADIYA -DIXIT , E., ET AL . Data poisoning won’t save you from
facial recognition. arXiv:2106.14851 (2021).
[65] RAMESH , A., ET AL . Zero-shot text-to-image generation. In Proc. of
ICML (2021).
[66] RAMESH , A., ET AL . Hierarchical text-conditional image generation
with clip latents. arXiv:2204.06125 (2022).
[67] ROMBACH , R., ET AL . High-resolution image synthesis with latent
diffusion models. In Proc. of CVPR (2022).
[68] RONY, J., G RANGER , E., P EDERSOLI , M., AND BEN AYED , I. Aug-
mented lagrangian adversarial attacks. In Proc. of ICCV (2021).
[69] ROOSE , K. An A.I.-Generated Picture Won an Art Prize. Artists
Aren’t Happy. The New York Times, Sept. 2022.
[70] RUIZ , N., ET AL . Dreambooth: Fine tuning text-to-image diffusion
models for subject-driven generation. arxiv:2208.12242 (2022).
[71] SABOUR , S., C AO, Y., FAGHRI , F., AND FLEET , D. J. Adversarial
manipulation of deep representations. arXiv:1511.05122 (2015).
[72] SAHARIA , C., ET AL . Palette: Image-to-image diffusion models. In
Proc. of SIGGRAPH (2022).
[73] SALEH , B., AND ELGAMMAL , A. Large-scale classiﬁcation of
ﬁne-art paintings: Learning the right metric on the right feature.
arXiv:1505.00855 (2015).
[74] SALEHI , M., ET AL . Arae: Adversarially robust training of autoen-
coders improves novelty detection. Neural Networks 144 (2021),
726–736.
[75] SALKOWITZ , R. AI is coming for commercial art jobs. can it be
stopped? Forbes, Sept 2022.
[76] SALMAN , H., K HADDAJ , A., L ECLERC , G., I LYAS, A., AND
MADRY, A. Raising the cost of malicious AI-powered image editing.
arXiv:2302.06588 (2022).
[77] S CENARIO .GG. AI-generated game assets, 2022.
[78] SCHUHMANN , C., ET AL . Laion-5b: An open large-scale dataset
for training next generation image-text models. arXiv:2210.08402
(2022).
[79] SHAN , S., D ING , W., W ENGER , E., Z HENG , H., AND ZHAO, B. Y.
Post-breach recovery: Protection against white-box adversarial exam-
ples for leaked dnn models. In Proc. of ACM CCS (2022).
[80] SHAN , S., W ENGER , E., WANG , B., L I, B., Z HENG , H., AND ZHAO,
B. Y. Gotta catch’em all: Using honeypots to catch adversarial attacks
on neural networks. In Proc. of ACM CCS (2020).
[81] SHAN , S., W ENGER , E., Z HANG , J., L I, H., Z HENG , H., AND ZHAO,
B. Y. Fawkes: Protecting privacy against unauthorized deep learning
models. In Proc. of USENIX Security (2020).
[82] SHARMA , P., D ING , N., G OODMAN , S., AND SORICUT , R. Con-
ceptual captions: A cleaned, hypernymed, image alt-text dataset for
automatic image captioning. In Proc. of ACL (2018).
[83] STABILITY AI. Stable Diffusion v2.1 and DreamStudio Updates,
Dec. 2022.
[84] SUCIU , O., ET AL . When does machine learning fail? generalized
transferability for evasion and poisoning attacks. In Proc. of USENIX
Security (2018).
[85] TABACOF , P., TAVARES, J., AND VALLE , E. Adversarial images for
variational autoencoders. arXiv:1612.00155 (2016).
[86] TAO, M., ET AL . DF-GAN: A simple and effective baseline for
text-to-image synthesis. In Proc. of CVPR (2022).
[87] THOMEE , B., ET AL . Yfcc100m: The new data in multimedia re-
search. CACM 59, 2 (2016), 64–73.
[88] TRAN , T. H. Image Apps Like Lensa AI Are Sweeping the Internet,
and Stealing From Artists. Yahoo News, 2022.
[89] UPCHURCH , P., ET AL . Deep feature interpolation for image content
changes. In Proc. of CVPR (2017).
[90] WANG , B., Y AO, Y., S HAN , S., L I, H., V ISWANATH , B., Z HENG ,
H., AND ZHAO, B. Y. Neural cleanse: Identifying and mitigating
backdoor attacks in neural networks. In Proc. of IEEE S&P (2019).
[91] WANG , F., AND LIU, H. Understanding the behaviour of contrastive
loss. In Proc. of CVPR (2021).
[92] WEATHERBED , J. ArtStation is hiding images protesting AI art on
the platform. The Verge, 2022.
[93] WEEKMAN , K. People Have Raised Serious Concerns About The
AI Art App That’s All Over Your Instagram Feed. BuzzFeed News,
2022.
[94] WEN, Y., ET AL . Hard prompts made easy: Gradient-based discrete
optimization for prompt tuning and discovery. arXiv:2302.03668
(2023).
[95] WENGER , E., S HAN , S., Z HENG , H., AND ZHAO, B. Y. SoK: Anti-
facial recognition technology. In Proc. of IEEE S&P (2023).
[96] WHITE , T. Sampling generative networks. arXiv:1609.04468 (2016).

[97] WIGGERS , K. Scenario lands $6M for its AI platform that generates
game art assets. TechCrunch, 2022.
[98] WIGGERS , K. Stability AI, the startup behind Stable Diffusion, raises
101M. TechCrunch, 2022.
[99] X U, T., ET AL . Attngan: Fine-grained text to image generation with
attentional generative adversarial networks. In Proc. of CVPR (2018).
[100] YANG , S. Why Artists are Fed Up with AI Art. Fayden Art, Dec.
2022.
[101] YOSINSKI , J., C LUNE , J., B ENGIO , Y., AND LIPSON , H. How trans-
ferable are features in deep neural networks? In Proc. of NeurIPS
(2014).
[102] ZHANG , H., AVRITHIS , Y., FURON , T., AND AMSALEG , L. Smooth
adversarial examples. EURASIP Journal on Information Security
(2020), 1–12.
[103] ZHANG , H., ET AL . Stackgan: Text to photo-realistic image synthe-
sis with stacked generative adversarial networks. In Proc. of ICCV
(2017).
[104] ZHANG , K., ET AL . Beyond a Gaussian denoiser: Residual learning
of deep CNN for image denoising. IEEE Trans. on Image Processing
(2017), 3142–3155.
[105] ZHANG , L. Adversecleaner. https://github.com/lllyasviel/
AdverseCleaner.
[106] ZHANG , R., ET AL . The unreasonable effectiveness of deep features
as a perceptual metric. In Proc. of CVPR (2018).
[107] ZHU, M., P AN, P., C HEN , W., AND YANG , Y. Dm-gan: Dynamic
memory generative adversarial networks for text-to-image synthesis.
In Proc. of CVPR (2019).
A Appendix
A.1 Adapting Existing Cloaking Systems
Here, we consider whether prior image cloaking systems can
be adapted to provide protection against art style mimicry. Our
results show adapting existing cloaking systems has limited
effectiveness for our goals.
Adapting existing cloaking systems. Fawkes [81] gen-
erates a cloak on user face images by optimizing the fea-
ture space difference between the cloaked image and a target
image. The target image is simply a face image of a differ-
ent person. We adapt Fawkes to anti-mimicry protection by
switching the feature extractor from facial recognition to the
same one we use for Glaze. For the target image used, we
assume Fawkes randomly picks an artwork from a different
artist. Fawkes uses DSSIM to bound the input perturbation.
For a fair comparison, we change Fawkes perturbation from
DSSIM to LPIPS, ones used by Glaze.
The general design of Lowkey [13] is similar to Fawkes,
except Lowkey does not optimize cloak images towards a
target in feature space but simply optimizes cloaked images to
be different from the original one. We directly apply LowKey
for anti-mimicry protection: Lowkey maximizes the cloaked
artwork to have a different feature representation from the
original artwork.
Photoguard [76] works by minimizing the norm of the
image feature vector. It is equivalent to Fawkes when Fawkes
selects the zero feature vector as the target for optimization.
For anti-mimicry, we adapted Photoguard to minimize the
norm of feature representation of the cloaked artwork.
Performance comparison. Figure 22 show Fawkes,
Lowkey, and Photoguard have limited effectiveness at pro-
tection against mimicry. Out of the three existing systems,
Fawkes achieves the best performance with41.0% artist-rated
protection success rate. While we can see small artifacts in-
troduced by Fawkes and Lowkey, they are not sufﬁcient to
prevent mimicry. In our tests, we use the same LPIPS pertur-
bation level and the same feature extractor for optimization
for all cloaking systems.
A.2 Additional Information on Style Mimicry
Impact of ﬁne-tuning on mimicry success. Figure 21
compares the mimicry performance when a mimic attack
ﬁne-tunes on the victim artist’s artwork or directly using a
generic model. For artists who are not household names (e.g.
iconic artists like Van Gogh), ﬁne-tuning signiﬁcantly im-
proves mimicry performance. We generate images using text
captions containing the artist’s name,e.g., “a river by Nathan
Fowkes.”
Details on training parameters. For stable diffusion, we
follow the same training parameters as the original paper [67].
We use5·10−6 learning rate and batch size of32. For a gener-
ation, we follow the default setting using the PNDM sampler
and 50 sampling steps. For DALL·E-m, we also follow the
same training setup as [17] with a learning rate of2·10−5 and
batch size 32. To generate images, we use the default setting
with a condition scale equal to 10.
Impact of selecting random seed. For diffusion-based
models (e.g., SD), artwork generation is controlled by a ran-
dom seed (random noise input at the beginning). Different
random seeds lead to very different images, and thus it is com-
mon practice for mimics to generate a set of artwork using
different seed and select the best artwork. A relevant question
is, can a mimic use sheer randomness to generate a plagiarized
artwork that succeeds despite Glaze protection.
We investigate the impact of random seed selection on
mimicry success in the presence of Glaze. Given a style-
speciﬁc model and a given text prompt, the mimic generates
100 plagiarized artworks using different random seeds. Simi-
lar to how we calculate CLIP-based genre shift, we then use
the CLIP model to identify any artwork that belongs to the
same genre as the target artist’s style. The results show that
4.3% of the time, the mimic is able to ﬁnd at least 1 out of the
100 plagiarized artwork that passed CLIP ﬁltering. While the
ﬁltered artwork does belong to the same genre as the artist,
we found they tend to have lower image quality. We verify
this observation in our user study, and> 94.1% human artists
rated the protection remains successful (i.e. these art pieces
failed to mimick the art style). We believe the reason that
some plagiarized artwork still shares the same genre as victim

A woman in a white 
dress  by Karla Ortiz 
A man wearing armor 
and holding a sword 
by Kim van Deun 
A crowd of people 
in front of a building 
by Nathan Fowkes 
Figure 18. Example data used for ﬁne-tuning, in-
cluding artwork from different artists and their
text captions.
1K steps
 2K steps
 3K steps
 4K steps
Artist-rated PSR 89.4 ± 1.5% 32.9 ± 4.3% 4.3 ± 0.2% 6.4 ± 0.8%
Attempts to 
mimic artist A
Attempts to 
mimic artist B
Figure 19. The success of style mimicry when
the mimic ﬁne-tunes the model for an increasing
number of iterations.
p = 0
 p = 0.05
 p = 0.1
 p = 0.2
Mimicked artwork when perturbation budget equals to 
p = 0.03
Figure 20. Mimicked artwork when artist uses an
increasingly high perturbation budget to protect
their original art.
Artist A
(Karla Ortiz) 
Artist B
(Nathan Fowkes) 
Artist D
(Van Gogh) 
Original artwork Mimicked art when mimic
fine-tunes on victim’s artwork 
Mimicked art when mimic
directly uses a generic model
Figure 21. Comparing performance of art mimicry directly using a
generic model to that of mimicry on a model that has been ﬁne-tuned on
the victim’s art pieces.Column 1-2: artists’ original artwork;column
3-4: plagiarized artwork generated from a style-speciﬁc model ﬁne-
tuned on artist’s art;column 5-6: plagiarized artwork generated from
the generic SD model using the artist’s name as prompt.
No protection Fawkes LowKey Ours
Artist-rated PSR
Attempts to 
mimic artist A
Attempts to 
mimic artist B
37.6 ± 5.5%41.0 ± 6.4%
PhotoGuard
4.3 ± 0.2% 93.5 + 0.6%11.5 ± 3.2% 
Figure 22. Comparing protection levels provided by different cloaking sys-
tems, including adapted versions of Fawkes, Lowkey, and Photoguard for
style protection. Glaze signiﬁcantly outperforms these adapted alternatives.
style after protection, is that text-to-image models today are
still imperfect and often output poor-quality images in rare
cases with some random seed.
A.3 CLIP-based metric
We test CLIP’s performance in classifying artwork into the
correct art genre. We take 27 historical genres from WikiArt
and 13 digital art genres [33] as the candidate labels. We col-
lect a test dataset consisting of 1000 artwork from WikiArt
dataset, each containing the ground truth labels from the
Wikiart dataset. Then we collect 100 artwork for each of
the 13 digital art genres by searching the name of the genre
on ArtStation, one of the largest digital art-sharing platforms.
We evaluate CLIP performance using top-3 accuracy as many
art genres are similar to each other ( e.g., impressionism vs
fauvism). CLIP achieves 96.4% top-3 accuracy on artwork
from WikiArt and 94.2% for artwork from ArtStation.
A.4 Additional Countermeasures
Details on robust training. Here, we give details on the
robust training method we used. We follow prior work [74] on
robust training of autoencoder models. The mimic ﬁrst uses
Glaze to generate a large number of cloaked artwork using
artwork from WikiArt dataset. Given the feature extractor Φ
used by mimic’s text-to-image model, the mimic trainsΦ to
minimize the following loss function:
minΦ||Φ(xcloaked )− Φ(xorg)||2
2 (3)
where xcloaked and xorg is a pair of cloaked and original art-
works. This optimization effectively forces Φ to extract the
same feature representation for cloaked and original artwork.
To prevent the extractor from collapsing ( e.g., output zero
vectors for all inputs), we regularized the training with the
standard V AE reconstruction loss and train the decoderD at
the same time. Given the high discrepancy between features
of cloaked and original artwork, this training process signiﬁ-
cantly modiﬁes the internals of Φ as well as the feature space.
Thus, the mimic needs to ﬁne-tune the decoder D and genera-
tor G on the new robust feature space. We assume the mimic
trains Φ for K steps on K different pairs of cloaked/original
artwork, and then ﬁne-tunes D and G until convergence.